Feat(MPR): create new guide about IAM authentication (#8162)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_private_registry/managing-iam-authentication/guide.en-gb.md

## Instructions

### Introduction to OVHcloud IAM

OVHcloud IAM (Identity and Access Management) is a centralized system that lets you manage who can access your OVHcloud services and what they are allowed to do. It provides fine-grained access control through users, groups, and roles.

When used with Managed Private Registry (MPR), OVHcloud IAM replaces Harbor’s local user database. This enables you to:

- Use SSO (Single Sign-On) with your OVHcloud credentials to access Harbor.
- Assign predefined IAM roles (admin, standard) to control access levels.
- Manage permissions at scale using IAM groups and projects.

By integrating IAM with your registry, you ensure consistent access control across your OVHcloud services — reducing manual management and improving security.

### Activate/Disable authentication via OVHcloud IAM

> [!warning]
>
> When you enable OVHcloud IAM authentication on your Managed Private Registry:
> 
> - All existing Harbor users and robot accounts will be removed.

> > - Existing robot accounts will continue to function, but you will no longer be able to create or manage them directly in Harbor.

Reviewer: Robot accounts can still be created and managed with IAM

> - From this point on, access is fully managed via OVHcloud IAM users and roles.
>

Log in to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager), navigate to the `Public Cloud`{.action} section, and select the relevant project. Then, in the left-hand menu under **Containers & Orchestration**, click on `Managed Private Registry`{.action}.

In the list of registries, click the `...`{.action} button on the relevant line, then choose:

- `Activate authentication via OVHcloud IAM`{.action} to enable it.

![activate IAM](images/activate_iam.png){.thumbnail}

- `Disable authentication via OVHcloud IAM`{.action} to disable it.

> ![diasable IAM](images/disable_iam.png){.thumbnail}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![disable IAM](images/disable_iam.png){.thumbnail}
```

### Authentication using SSO with OVHcloud IAM users

Once IAM authentication is enabled, access to the Harbor UI is handled via OVHcloud Single Sign-On (SSO). Users no longer log in with Harbor-local credentials but authenticate directly using their OVHcloud IAM identity.

To log in via SSO:

- Open the `Harbor user interface`{.action} from the Control Panel.

![harbor user interface](images/harbor_interface.png){.thumbnail}

- You will be redirected to the OVHcloud authentication page, log in using your OVHcloud IAM credentials.

![login with SSO](images/iam_authentication.png){.thumbnail}

- Access to Harbor is granted based on the IAM role associated with your user account.

> [!primary]
>
> Only users with the appropriate IAM role (admin or standard) can access the registry after IAM authentication is enabled.
>

### Managing access rights with OVHcloud IAM

OVHcloud IAM provides two predefined roles for managing access to your Managed Private Registry (MPR):

- Standard
- Admin

> [!primary]
>
> **Admin** role: Regardless of the user group defined in the Identities section, assigning the Admin role will grant full administrative privileges on the selected registry.
> 

> > **Standard** role: Make sure users assigned to the Standard role do not belong to the Default group in the `Identities` section. This group has elevated rights by default (including admin-level access with limited capabilities, such as no user creation). To ensure clean separation of roles, we recommend:

Reviewer: I don't understand what we mean with `such as no user creation`

> 
> - Organizing users into clearly defined groups.

> > - After changing a user’s group and assigning the Standard role, fine-tune their permissions directly in Harbor for better control and consistency. See the different roles in Harbor [here.](https://goharbor.io/docs/1.10/administration/managing-users/user-permissions-by-role/){.external}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - After changing a user’s group and assigning the Standard role, fine-tune their permissions directly in Harbor for better control and consistency. See the different roles in Harbor [here](https://goharbor.io/docs/1.10/administration/managing-users/user-permissions-by-role/).{.external}
```

>

> These roles are assigned through IAM policies. To create and configure a policy: pour configurer une policy, navigate to the `Identity, Security & Operations`{.action} sectiont. Then, in the left-hand menu under **Identity and Access management**, click on `Policies`{.action} and click on `Create a policy`{.action} button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These roles are assigned through IAM policies. To create and configure a policy, navigate to the `Identity, Security & Operations`{.action} sectiont. Then, in the left-hand menu under **Identity and Access management**, click on `Policies`{.action} and click on `Create a policy`{.action} button.
```

> These roles are assigned through IAM policies. To create and configure a policy: pour configurer une policy, navigate to the `Identity, Security & Operations`{.action} sectiont. Then, in the left-hand menu under **Identity and Access management**, click on `Policies`{.action} and click on `Create a policy`{.action} button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These roles are assigned through IAM policies. To create and configure a policy: pour configurer une policy, navigate to the `Identity, Security & Operations`{.action} section. Then, in the left-hand menu under **Identity and Access management**, click on `Policies`{.action} and click on `Create a policy`{.action} button.
```

- An access to the Harbor UI to operate the private registry (see the [connecting to the UI](/pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_private_registry/connecting-to-the-ui) guide for more information)

## Instructions

### Introduction to OVHcloud IAM

OVHcloud IAM (Identity and Access Management) is a centralized system that lets you manage who can access your OVHcloud services and what they are allowed to do. It provides fine-grained access control through users, groups, and roles.

When used with Managed Private Registry (MPR), OVHcloud IAM replaces Harbor’s local user database. This enables you to:

- Use SSO (Single Sign-On) with your OVHcloud credentials to access Harbor.
- Assign predefined IAM roles (admin, standard) to control access levels.
- Manage permissions at scale using IAM groups and projects.

By integrating IAM with your registry, you ensure consistent access control across your OVHcloud services — reducing manual management and improving security.

### Activate/Disable authentication via OVHcloud IAM

> [!warning]
>
> When you enable OVHcloud IAM authentication on your Managed Private Registry:
> 

> > - All existing Harbor users and robot accounts will be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - All existing Harbor users will be removed.
```

> - Existing robot accounts remain functional.

> > - New robot accounts can still be created and managed, but only via OVHcloud IAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - New robot accounts can still be created and managed.
```

> > - From this point on, all access (users and robot accounts) is managed through OVHcloud IAM roles and policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> - From this point on, all users access are managed through OVHcloud IAM roles and policies.
```
